\section{Tools for {\TeX}/{\LaTeX} to {\xml} Conversion}

The conversion of {\TeX/\LaTeX} documents has been supported by various tools, of
which none has been totally satisfactory yet. For an overview and a test suite
see~\cite{MathmlTeXSuite}.

The {\sc{MMiSSLaTeX}}~\cite{DweLinLuth:tucm04} to {\omdoc} converter is based on a
set of {\LaTeX} styles~\cite[Chapter 4]{Kohlhase:omfmd01} that use {\TeX}'s file
output facility to generate {\omdoc} files directly.
 
The {\connexions} project has developed a {\LaTeX}
package~\cite{WillHenBar:clsfflc03} facilitating content markup in {\LaTeX} for
the {\LaTeX}-to-{\cnxml} conversion, but does not have a transformation tool that
makes use of it.

Romeo Anghelache's {\hermes}~\cite{Anghelache:hermes} and Eitan Gurari's {\texfourht}
systems use special {\TeX} macros to seed the {\tt{dvi}} file generated by {\TeX}
with semantic information.  The {\tt{dvi}} file is then parsed by a custom parser
to recover the text and semantic traces which are then combined to form the output
{\xml} document. While {\hermes} attempts to recover as much of the mathematical
formulae as {\cmathml}, it has to revert to {\pmathml} where it does not have
semantic information. {\texfourht} directly aims for {\pmathml}.

The latter two systems rely on the {\TeX} parser for dealing with the intricacies
of the {\TeX} macro language (e.g. {\TeX} allows to change the tokenization (via
``catcodes'')and the grammar at run-time). In contrast to this, Bruce Miller's
{\latexml}~\cite{Miller:latexml} system and the {\scsys{SGLR}/\scsys{Elan4}}
system~\cite{VanDenBrandStuber2003} re-implement a parser for a large fragment of
the {\TeX} language. This has the distinct advantage that we can control the
parsing process: We want to expand abbreviative macros and recursively work on the
resulting token sequence, while we want to directly translate semantic macros,
since they directly correspond to the content representations we want to obtain.
The {\latexml} and {\scsys{SGLR}/\scsys{Elan4}} systems allow us to do just this.

In the conversion experiment that drove the development of the {\stex} package, we
chose the {\latexml} system, whose {\LaTeX} parser seems to have larger coverage.
We assume that a solution based on the {\scsys{SGLR}/\scsys{Elan4}} system would
work similarly.  Eventually, a combination of both systems might be the way to go:
the {\scsys{Elan4}} system could be integrated into post-processing phase of the
{\latexml} work-flow.  Systems like {\hermes} or {\texfourht} could be used with
{\stex}, given suitable {\stex} bindings provided we find a way to distinguish
semantic- from abbreviative macros.

%%% Local Variables: 
%%% mode: stex
%%% TeX-master: "main"
%%% End: 
